---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "databasus_backup_config Resource - databasus"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Backup Configuration resource for define the backup job details like intervals and the target storage
---

# databasus_backup_config (Resource)

Backup Configuration resource for define the backup job details like intervals and the target storage

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "databasus_workspace" "example" {
  name = "my-workspace"
}

resource "databasus_storage_local" "example" {
  name         = "my-local-storage"
  workspace_id = resource.databasus_workspace.example.id
}

resource "databasus_database_postgresql" "example" {
  name            = "my-postgres-db"
  database        = "test_db"
  host            = "db"
  port            = 5432
  is_https        = false
  username        = "admin"
  password        = "admin"
  include_schemas = ["public"]
  workspace_id    = resource.databasus_workspace.example.id
}

resource "databasus_backup_config" "example" {
  enabled               = true
  interval              = "DAILY"
  time_of_day           = "08:00"
  retention_policy_type = "COUNT"
  retention_count       = 30
  storage_id            = resource.databasus_storage_local.example.id
  database_id           = resource.databasus_database_postgresql.example.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `database_id` (String) The id of the database config to create the backup config for
- `interval` (String) The schedule interval for the backup. Can be HOURLY, DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY
- `retention_policy_type` (String) Retention policy type to be used. Valid values are: TIME_PERIOD (time based backup policy, keeping backup of last periods defined in retention_time_period), COUNT (Keep only the specified number of most recent backups. Older backups beyond this count are automatically deleted, count is defined with retention_count), GFS (Grandfather-Father-Son rotation: keep the last N hourly, daily, weekly, monthly and yearly backups. This allows keeping backups over long periods of time within a reasonable storage space.)
- `storage_id` (String) The id of storage to use for the backups

### Optional

- `cron_expression` (String) Only needed when interval is set to CRON. Cron format: minute hour day month weekday (UTC). Defaults to 0 0 * * * (Daily at Midnight UTC)
- `day_of_month` (Number) Only needed when interval is set to MONTHLY. The day of the month when to execute the backup. Defaults to 1
- `enabled` (Boolean) Flag to enable and disable backups completely. Defaults to true
- `encryption` (Boolean) Flag to configure encryption of backups. If backup is encrypted, backup files in your storage (S3, local, etc.) cannot be used directly. You can restore backups through Databasus or download them unencrypted via the 'Download' button in the UI. Defaults to true
- `max_failed_retry_count` (Number) Flag to configure if and how many failed backups should be retried. Set to 0 to disable retries. Default to 0
- `retention_count` (Number) Only used if Retention Policy is set to COUNT. Number of last backups to keep. Defaults to 14
- `retention_gfs_days` (Number) Only used if Retention Policy is set to GFS. Number of Daily backups. Defaults to 14
- `retention_gfs_hours` (Number) Only used if Retention Policy is set to GFS. Number of Daily backups. Default to 24
- `retention_gfs_months` (Number) Only used if Retention Policy is set to GFS. Number of Monthly backups. Defaults to 12
- `retention_gfs_weeks` (Number) Only used if Retention Policy is set to GFS. Number of Weekly backups. Defaults to 4
- `retention_gfs_years` (Number) Only used if Retention Policy is set to GFS. Number of Yearly backups. Defaults to 3
- `retention_time_period` (String) Only used if Retention Policy is set to TIME_PERIOD. How long to keep the backups. Backups older than this period are automatically deleted. Allowed values: DAY, WEEK, MONTH, 3_MONTH, 6_MONTH, YEAR, 2_YEARS, 3_YEARS. Defaults to MONTH
- `send_notifications_on_backup_failure` (Boolean) Flag to indicate if notifications should be send when a backup fails. Defaults to true
- `send_notifications_on_backup_success` (Boolean) Flag to indicate if notifications should be send when a backup completed successful. Defaults to false
- `time_of_day` (String) Only needed when interval is set to DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY or CRON. The time of the day in 24 hour format when to perform the backup. Defaults to 00:00 UTC
- `weekday` (Number) Only needed when interval is set to WEEKLY. The weekday when to execute the backup, Defaults to 1 for Monday
