---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "databasus_database_mongodb Resource - databasus"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  MongoDB Database resource to configure connection details to a database within MariDB instance.
  Please note that the DB must be reachable and credentials must be valid, otherwise terraform will fail creating this resource, since Databasus performs a connection check during registration of the new database configuration.
---

# databasus_database_mongodb (Resource)

MongoDB Database resource to configure connection details to a database within MariDB instance.

Please note that the DB must be reachable and credentials must be valid, otherwise terraform will fail creating this resource, since Databasus performs a connection check during registration of the new database configuration.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "databasus_workspace" "example" {
  name = "my-workspace-local-storage"
}

resource "databasus_database_mongodb" "example" {
  name          = "my-mongo-db"
  auth_database = "admin"
  database      = "my-test-db"
  host          = "my-db-host.local"
  port          = 27017
  is_https      = true
  username      = "test-user"
  password      = "test-pwd"
  workspace_id  = resource.databasus_workspace.example.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `auth_database` (String) The auth database to use for authentication. E.g. admin
- `database` (String) The name of the database to be backed up
- `host` (String) The hostname of the database instance
- `is_https` (Boolean) Use HTTPS / TLS or not when connecting to the DB host
- `name` (String) The display name (in the Databasus UI) of the database configuration to be created
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the DB role to use when creating backups
- `port` (Number) The port number of the MongoDB instance (e.g. 27017)
- `username` (String, Sensitive) The DB username (role) to be used for creating the backups
- `workspace_id` (String) The id of the workspace the storage belongs to

### Optional

- `cpu_count` (Number) Number of CPU cores to use for backup and restore operations. Higher values may speed up operations but use more resources. Defaults to 1
- `is_direct_connection` (Boolean) Connect directly to a single server, skipping replica set discovery. Useful when the server is behind a load balancer, proxy or tunnel. Defaults to false
- `is_srv` (Boolean) Enable for MongoDB Atlas SRV connections (mongodb+srv://). Port is not required for SRV connections. Defaults to false

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The internal Id of the Storage Configuration
